a lot of you are asking why does some
people die from the coronavirus and some
just get mild symptoms or none at all
and can you prep your immune system to
fight back one of the world's leading
authorities and preventive medicine is
here to answer those questions please
welcome back to Michael Royce and chief
wellness officer emeritus at the
Cleveland Clinic and my close friend
why'd the varied response and I hear
you're like a bull and I get that you've
done things to make yourself stronger
what are those tools well there are two
reasons we get disease when we get a
viral infection like this one is the
direct attack on your lung tissue it
gets into the lung and you attack it and
sometimes you can't oxygenate well
enough and to live and so that's the
pneumonias and then you can get a
secondary pneumonia because the cells
get weakened so they can't if you will
get the back the virus or bacteria out
it the second reason is we get a large
immune response and an inflammatory
response that inflammatory response is
much higher with a viral with a flu than
with a bacterial infection or other
infections and people who have plaque
the elderly that have plaque in their
arteries atherosclerosis break off that
plaque because of the inflammation and
that plaque goes and causes heart
disease or stroke or memory loss or
arrhythmias abnormal heartbeats and that
can kill people suddenly so the elderly
it's because of they already have these
pre-existing diseases that predispose
them to a bad response to inflammation
that's what get one through how the
immune response which deals with
coronavirus and this is pretty typical
of how most viruses work they're the
first step right is your skin your
initial defense is there that's why we
try to keep the virus off your skin all
together by washing your fingers
especially and then not touching the
fingers to your face but if you do touch
your fingers to your face you didn't
wash them right the virus thing reaches
your nose now this is when the war
starts these little hairs in here these
cilia they're in the front lines of
defense they're bloom like projections
to try to sweep out the virus to get it
out you don't have
to deal with it anymore something's
impede these brooms working properly
like air pollution are smoking and
vaping it's what we're saying this is
good time to stop smoking and vaping
that makes for pretty harsh terrain so
the virus can then make it past your
nose blows all the way through there's
these little green things going all the
way down penetrating into the lungs into
the cells of the lungs where they begin
to replicate and disperse the other
parts of your body for a total takeover
but your immune system sees the
advancing invader and it calls for
backup you know what your immune system
is like an army right army it's fighting
off the invaders there's the coronavirus
notice the crown please right there's
two basic ways to fight up the virus one
group of these cells in your army will
actually fire antibodies boom boom boom
right at the virus those antibodies can
be hugely helpful we've talked about how
I could take an Tobias and someone who's
already sick loan them to this to a
person who's gonna die if they can't
deal with this infection and it'll help
them so you can help people because you
made your own antibodies you can share
them the second group attacks the virus
and the hand combat both these tactics
work now all this war leaves behind a
lot of wreckage and inflammation - dr.
Rosen's point sometimes it's not that
virus that kills you it's the
inflammation because your army is firing
off in this friendly fire so when you're
sick and healing you've got a lot of
corner patients suffering from this
right now
doctors can put you on a ventilator take
some of the stress off your lungs but
the inflammation itself is hard to
manage
so if our bodies are going to go to war
with Koba 19 they got to be in tip-top
shape so what's your best advice so how
to support our immune systems right now
so we can actually defend their cells
better so there are three big ones sleep
stress and then a little vitamin C or a
multivitamin
so what's sleep you know that if your
warriors are tired they don't shoot as
well if they're stressed they can't
shoot or aim as well or even load their
guns and they need vitamin C to produce
the antibodies to be able to hit their
target with the antibodies and addition
to that you want to eat the right foods
when we come back dr. Rosen sharing the
foods to eat and the ones to avoid
during the coronal virus outbreak be
right back
[Applause]
faces of the coronavirus patients and
experts their first-hand accounts on the
front lines against this pandemic and
shocking updates on the doomsday cult ma
lori valo
that's coming up on tuesday be sure to
subscribe to my channel so you don't
miss anything and remember to check back
often to see what's new